# Godot-XR-AH
Godot XR Auto Hand - addon

## Installation

Clone the repo and copy the `addons/godot-xr-autohandtrack` folder into your project's `addons` folder 
or use the AssetLib to install it.

## Use

This addon should automatically enable hand tracking on all of the hand assets used in the 
[godot-xr-tools](https://github.com/GodotVR/godot-xr-tools) addon library.  
Simply instantiate an AutoHand scene under the XRController3Ds or the 
hand objects themselves and this library will take over the animation of 
the fingers when hand tracking mode is detected.

Uses only the OpenXR api function calls and has been tested
on Quest2 and Pico4.  **Don't forget to enable hand tracking 
when you export the project**.

The only signal generated by the hand tracking engine is `select_button` 
when the tit of the index finger and thumb come together, and is usually 
analogous to the `trigger_click` with the controller.

## Options

Map the signal select_button to the output.  Make a grip click button too.



## Method

We calculate the poses for the bones of the hand to match the positions 
of the joints as output by the OpenXR interface using a brute force method 
of forcing each bone to rotate from its rest pose to align so that it 
ends at the correct location.

Although the OpenXR hand diagram looks like a set of bone poses, it isn't 
really since the joint orientations and positions are all independent, and 
there is no defined displacement from one joint as there is for bone poses.
There is no concept of a default hand size.


